docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Databricks-JDBC.mdx, before:

---
title: Databricks JDBC
permalink: /config/databases/databricks/jdbc
---

## Prerequisites

- [A JDK installation][gh-cubejs-jdbc-install]
- The [JDBC URL][databricks-docs-jdbc-url] for the [Databricks][databricks]
  cluster

## Setup

### Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube project:

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=databricks-jdbc
# CUBEJS_DB_NAME is optional
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=default
# You can find this inside the cluster's configuration
CUBEJS_DB_DATABRICKS_URL=jdbc:spark://dbc-XXXXXXX-XXXX.cloud.databricks.com:443/default;transportMode=http;ssl=1;httpPath=sql/protocolv1/o/XXXXX/XXXXX;AuthMech=3;UID=token;PWD=XXXXX
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable                 | Description                                                               | Possible Values       | Required |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`                     | The name of the database to connect to                                    | A valid database name |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_DATABRICKS_URL`           | The URL for a JDBC connection                                             | A valid JDBC URL      |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_DATABRICKS_ACCEPT_POLICY` | Whether or not to accept the license terms for the Databricks JDBC driver | `true`, `false`       |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_MOUNT_DIR`  | The path for the [Databricks DBFS mount][databricks-docs-dbfs]            | A valid mount path    |    ❌    |

## Pre-Aggregation Feature Support

### countDistinctApprox

Measures of type
[`countDistinctApprox`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox] can
not be used in pre-aggregations when using Databricks as a data source.

## Pre-Aggregation Build Strategies

<InfoBox>

To learn more about pre-aggregation build strategies, [head
here][ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats].

</InfoBox>

| Feature       | Works with read-only mode? | Is default? |
| ------------- | :------------------------: | :---------: |
| Simple        |             ❌             |     ✅      |
| Export Bucket |             ❌             |     ❌      |

By default, Databricks JDBC uses a [simple][self-preaggs-simple] strategy to
build pre-aggregations.

### Simple

No extra configuration is required to configure simple pre-aggregation builds
for Databricks.

### Export Bucket

Databricks supports using both [AWS S3][aws-s3] and [Azure Blob
Storage][azure-bs] for export bucket functionality.

#### AWS S3

To use AWS S3 as an export bucket, first complete [the Databricks guide on
mounting S3 buckets to Databricks DBFS][databricks-docs-dbfs-s3].

<InfoBox>

Ensure the AWS credentials are correctly configured in IAM to allow reads and
writes to the export bucket in S3.

</InfoBox>

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_TYPE=s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET=s3://my.bucket.on.s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_KEY=<AWS_KEY>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_SECRET=<AWS_SECRET>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_REGION=<AWS_REGION>
```

#### Azure Blob Storage

To use Azure Blob Storage as an export bucket, follow [the Databricks guide on
mounting Azure Blob Storage to Databricks DBFS][databricks-docs-dbfs-azure].

[Retrieve the storage account access key][azure-bs-docs-get-key] from your Azure
account and use as follows:

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_TYPE=azure
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET=wasbs://my-bucket@my-account.blob.core.windows.net
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AZURE_KEY=<AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_KEY>
```

## SSL/TLS

Cube does not require any additional configuration to enable SSL/TLS for
Databricks JDBC connections.

## Additional Configuration

### Cube Cloud

To accurately show partition sizes in the Cube Cloud APM, [an export
bucket][self-preaggs-export-bucket] **must be** configured.

[aws-s3]: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
[azure-bs]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/storage/blobs/
[azure-bs-docs-get-key]:
  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-keys-manage?toc=%2Fazure%2Fstorage%2Fblobs%2Ftoc.json&tabs=azure-portal#view-account-access-keys
[databricks]: https://databricks.com/
[databricks-docs-dbfs]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/data/databricks-file-system.html#mount-object-storage-to-dbfs
[databricks-docs-dbfs-azure]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/data/data-sources/azure/azure-storage.html#mount-azure-blob-storage-containers-to-dbfs
[databricks-docs-dbfs-s3]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/data/data-sources/aws/amazon-s3.html#access-s3-buckets-through-dbfs
[databricks-docs-jdbc-url]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/integrations/bi/jdbc-odbc-bi.html#get-server-hostname-port-http-path-and-jdbc-url
[gh-cubejs-jdbc-install]:
  https://github.com/cube-js/cube.js/blob/master/packages/cubejs-jdbc-driver/README.md#java-installation
[ref-caching-large-preaggs]: /caching/using-pre-aggregations#export-bucket
[ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats]:
  /caching/using-pre-aggregations#pre-aggregation-build-strategies
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox]:
  /schema/reference/types-and-formats#count-distinct-approx
[self-preaggs-simple]: #simple
[self-preaggs-export-bucket]: #export-bucket

Commit message:

docs(config): document default concurrency settings for all drivers

docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Databricks-JDBC.mdx, after:

---
title: Databricks JDBC
permalink: /config/databases/databricks/jdbc
---

## Prerequisites

- [A JDK installation][gh-cubejs-jdbc-install]
- The [JDBC URL][databricks-docs-jdbc-url] for the [Databricks][databricks]
  cluster

## Setup

### Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube project:

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=databricks-jdbc
# CUBEJS_DB_NAME is optional
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=default
# You can find this inside the cluster's configuration
CUBEJS_DB_DATABRICKS_URL=jdbc:spark://dbc-XXXXXXX-XXXX.cloud.databricks.com:443/default;transportMode=http;ssl=1;httpPath=sql/protocolv1/o/XXXXX/XXXXX;AuthMech=3;UID=token;PWD=XXXXX
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable                 | Description                                                                         | Possible Values       | Required |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`                     | The name of the database to connect to                                              | A valid database name |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_DATABRICKS_URL`           | The URL for a JDBC connection                                                       | A valid JDBC URL      |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_DATABRICKS_ACCEPT_POLICY` | Whether or not to accept the license terms for the Databricks JDBC driver           | `true`, `false`       |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_MOUNT_DIR`  | The path for the [Databricks DBFS mount][databricks-docs-dbfs]                      | A valid mount path    |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_CONCURRENCY`                 | The number of concurrent connections each queue has to the database. Default is `2` | A valid number        |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_MAX_POOL`                 | The maximum number of concurrent database connections to pool. Default is `8`       | A valid number        |    ❌    |

## Pre-Aggregation Feature Support

### countDistinctApprox

Measures of type
[`countDistinctApprox`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox] can
not be used in pre-aggregations when using Databricks as a data source.

## Pre-Aggregation Build Strategies

<InfoBox>

To learn more about pre-aggregation build strategies, [head
here][ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats].

</InfoBox>

| Feature       | Works with read-only mode? | Is default? |
| ------------- | :------------------------: | :---------: |
| Simple        |             ❌             |     ✅      |
| Export Bucket |             ❌             |     ❌      |

By default, Databricks JDBC uses a [simple][self-preaggs-simple] strategy to
build pre-aggregations.

### Simple

No extra configuration is required to configure simple pre-aggregation builds
for Databricks.

### Export Bucket

Databricks supports using both [AWS S3][aws-s3] and [Azure Blob
Storage][azure-bs] for export bucket functionality.

#### AWS S3

To use AWS S3 as an export bucket, first complete [the Databricks guide on
mounting S3 buckets to Databricks DBFS][databricks-docs-dbfs-s3].

<InfoBox>

Ensure the AWS credentials are correctly configured in IAM to allow reads and
writes to the export bucket in S3.

</InfoBox>

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_TYPE=s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET=s3://my.bucket.on.s3
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_KEY=<AWS_KEY>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_SECRET=<AWS_SECRET>
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AWS_REGION=<AWS_REGION>
```

#### Azure Blob Storage

To use Azure Blob Storage as an export bucket, follow [the Databricks guide on
mounting Azure Blob Storage to Databricks DBFS][databricks-docs-dbfs-azure].

[Retrieve the storage account access key][azure-bs-docs-get-key] from your Azure
account and use as follows:

```dotenv
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_TYPE=azure
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET=wasbs://my-bucket@my-account.blob.core.windows.net
CUBEJS_DB_EXPORT_BUCKET_AZURE_KEY=<AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_ACCESS_KEY>
```

## SSL/TLS

Cube does not require any additional configuration to enable SSL/TLS for
Databricks JDBC connections.

## Additional Configuration

### Cube Cloud

To accurately show partition sizes in the Cube Cloud APM, [an export
bucket][self-preaggs-export-bucket] **must be** configured.

[aws-s3]: https://aws.amazon.com/s3/
[azure-bs]: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/storage/blobs/
[azure-bs-docs-get-key]:
  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-keys-manage?toc=%2Fazure%2Fstorage%2Fblobs%2Ftoc.json&tabs=azure-portal#view-account-access-keys
[databricks]: https://databricks.com/
[databricks-docs-dbfs]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/data/databricks-file-system.html#mount-object-storage-to-dbfs
[databricks-docs-dbfs-azure]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/data/data-sources/azure/azure-storage.html#mount-azure-blob-storage-containers-to-dbfs
[databricks-docs-dbfs-s3]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/data/data-sources/aws/amazon-s3.html#access-s3-buckets-through-dbfs
[databricks-docs-jdbc-url]:
  https://docs.databricks.com/integrations/bi/jdbc-odbc-bi.html#get-server-hostname-port-http-path-and-jdbc-url
[gh-cubejs-jdbc-install]:
  https://github.com/cube-js/cube.js/blob/master/packages/cubejs-jdbc-driver/README.md#java-installation
[ref-caching-large-preaggs]: /caching/using-pre-aggregations#export-bucket
[ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats]:
  /caching/using-pre-aggregations#pre-aggregation-build-strategies
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox]:
  /schema/reference/types-and-formats#count-distinct-approx
[self-preaggs-simple]: #simple
[self-preaggs-export-bucket]: #export-bucket
