docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Elasticsearch.mdx, before:

---
title: Elasticsearch
permalink: /config/databases/elasticsearch
---

<WarningBox>
  The driver for Elasticsearch is <a href="../databases#driver-support">community-supported</a> and is not supported by Cube or the vendor. 
</WarningBox>

## Prerequisites

To connect to an [Elasticsearch][elasticsearch] database, use `CUBEJS_DB_URL`
with the username and password embedded in the URL, if required.

<WarningBox>

If you're not using [Elastic Cloud][elastic-cloud], you **must** specify
`CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_QUERY_FORMAT`.

</WarningBox>

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

For a self-hosted Elasticsearch instance, add the following to a `.env` file in
your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=elasticsearch
CUBEJS_DB_URL=https://my.elasticsearch.host:9200
CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_QUERY_FORMAT=json
```

For an Elasticsearch instanced hosted by [Elastic.co][elastic-co], add the
following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=elasticsearch
CUBEJS_DB_URL=https://my.elasticsearch.host:9200
CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_ID=VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx
CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_KEY=ui2lp2axTNmsyakw9tvNnw
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable             | Description                                                                                                                                                                              | Possible Values                        | Required |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_URL`                  | The URL for a database                                                                                                                                                                   | A valid database URL for Elasticsearch |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_QUERY_FORMAT` | By default, queries return data in JDBC format, but you can also return data in standard Elasticsearch JDBC, JSON, CSV, YAML or raw formats (only JSON and JDBC are currently supported) | `json`, `jdbc`                         |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_OPENDISTRO`   | If `true`, then use the Open Distro for Elasticsearch                                                                                                                                    | `true`, `false`                        |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_ID`    | [ID of the API key from elastic.co][elastic-docs-api-keys]                                                                                                                               | A valid Elastic.co API key ID          |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_KEY`   | [Value of the API key from elastic.co][elastic-docs-api-keys]                                                                                                                            | A valid Elastic.co API key value       |    ❌    |

## SSL

Cube.js does not require any additional configuration to enable SSL as
Elasticsearch connections are made over HTTPS.

[elastic-co]: https://elastic.co/
[elastic-cloud]: https://cloud.elastic.co/
[elasticsearch]: https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/
[elastic-docs-api-keys]:
  https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/api-keys.html#create-api-key

Commit message:

docs(config): document default concurrency settings for all drivers

docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Elasticsearch.mdx, after:

---
title: Elasticsearch
permalink: /config/databases/elasticsearch
---

<WarningBox>
  The driver for Elasticsearch is{' '}
  <a href="../databases#driver-support">community-supported</a> and is not
  supported by Cube or the vendor.
</WarningBox>

## Prerequisites

To connect to an [Elasticsearch][elasticsearch] database, use `CUBEJS_DB_URL`
with the username and password embedded in the URL, if required.

<WarningBox>

If you're not using [Elastic Cloud][elastic-cloud], you **must** specify
`CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_QUERY_FORMAT`.

</WarningBox>

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

For a self-hosted Elasticsearch instance, add the following to a `.env` file in
your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=elasticsearch
CUBEJS_DB_URL=https://my.elasticsearch.host:9200
CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_QUERY_FORMAT=json
```

For an Elasticsearch instanced hosted by [Elastic.co][elastic-co], add the
following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=elasticsearch
CUBEJS_DB_URL=https://my.elasticsearch.host:9200
CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_ID=VuaCfGcBCdbkQm-e5aOx
CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_KEY=ui2lp2axTNmsyakw9tvNnw
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable             | Description                                                                                                                                                                              | Possible Values                        | Required |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_URL`                  | The URL for a database                                                                                                                                                                   | A valid database URL for Elasticsearch |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_QUERY_FORMAT` | By default, queries return data in JDBC format, but you can also return data in standard Elasticsearch JDBC, JSON, CSV, YAML or raw formats (only JSON and JDBC are currently supported) | `json`, `jdbc`                         |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_OPENDISTRO`   | If `true`, then use the Open Distro for Elasticsearch                                                                                                                                    | `true`, `false`                        |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_ID`    | [ID of the API key from elastic.co][elastic-docs-api-keys]                                                                                                                               | A valid Elastic.co API key ID          |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_ELASTIC_APIKEY_KEY`   | [Value of the API key from elastic.co][elastic-docs-api-keys]                                                                                                                            | A valid Elastic.co API key value       |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_CONCURRENCY`             | The number of concurrent connections each queue has to the database. Default is `2`                                                                                                      | A valid number                         |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_MAX_POOL`             | The maximum number of concurrent database connections to pool. Default is `8`                                                                                                            | A valid number                         |    ❌    |

## SSL

Cube.js does not require any additional configuration to enable SSL as
Elasticsearch connections are made over HTTPS.

[elastic-co]: https://elastic.co/
[elastic-cloud]: https://cloud.elastic.co/
[elasticsearch]: https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/
[elastic-docs-api-keys]:
  https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/api-keys.html#create-api-key
