docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Firebolt.mdx, before:

---
title: Firebolt
permalink: /config/databases/firebolt
---

## Prerequisites

- The username/password for your [Firebolt][firebolt] account

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=firebolt_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=firebolt_user@customer.com
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=**********
CUBEJS_FIREBOLT_ENGINE_ENDPOINT=engine-endpoint.cube.us-east-1.app.firebolt.io
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable                            | Description                                                                                                                        | Possible Values                                                             | Required |
| ----------------------------------------------- | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------| :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`                                | The name of the database to connect to                                                                                             | A valid database name                                                       |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`                                | The username used to connect to the database                                                                                       | A valid database username                                                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`                                | The password used to connect to the database                                                                                       | A valid database password                                                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_FIREBOLT_ENGINE_ENDPOINT`               | Engine endpoint to connect to                                                                                                      | A valid engine endpoint                                                     |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_FIREBOLT_API_ENDPOINT`                  | Firebolt api endpoint (used for authentication)                                                                                    | `api.dev.firebolt.io`, `api.staging.firebolt.io`, `api.app.firebolt.io`     |    -     |


[firebolt]: https://www.firebolt.io/

Commit message:

docs(config): document default concurrency settings for all drivers

docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Firebolt.mdx, after:

---
title: Firebolt
permalink: /config/databases/firebolt
---

## Prerequisites

- The username/password for your [Firebolt][firebolt] account

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=firebolt_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=firebolt_user@customer.com
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=**********
CUBEJS_FIREBOLT_ENGINE_ENDPOINT=engine-endpoint.cube.us-east-1.app.firebolt.io
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable              | Description                                                                         | Possible Values                                                         | Required |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`                  | The name of the database to connect to                                              | A valid database name                                                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`                  | The username used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database username                                               |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`                  | The password used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database password                                               |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_FIREBOLT_ENGINE_ENDPOINT` | Engine endpoint to connect to                                                       | A valid engine endpoint                                                 |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_FIREBOLT_API_ENDPOINT`    | Firebolt api endpoint (used for authentication)                                     | `api.dev.firebolt.io`, `api.staging.firebolt.io`, `api.app.firebolt.io` |    -     |
| `CUBEJS_CONCURRENCY`              | The number of concurrent connections each queue has to the database. Default is `5` | A valid number                                                          |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_MAX_POOL`              | The maximum number of concurrent database connections to pool. Default is `20`      | A valid number                                                          |    ❌    |

[firebolt]: https://www.firebolt.io/
