docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Materialize.mdx, before:

---
title: Materialize
permalink: /config/databases/materialize
---

## Prerequisites

- The hostname for the [Materialize][materialize] database server

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=materialize
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my.materialize.host
CUBEJS_DB_PORT=6875
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=materialize
CUBEJS_DB_USER=materialize
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=materialize
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                             | Possible Values           | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                             | A valid database host URL |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                    | A valid port number       |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                  | A valid database name     |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                            | A valid database username |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                            | A valid database password |    ✅    |

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and Materialize, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

[materialize]: https://materialize.com/docs/

Commit message:

docs(config): document default concurrency settings for all drivers

docs/content/Configuration/Databases/Materialize.mdx, after:

---
title: Materialize
permalink: /config/databases/materialize
---

## Prerequisites

- The hostname for the [Materialize][materialize] database server

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=materialize
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my.materialize.host
CUBEJS_DB_PORT=6875
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=materialize
CUBEJS_DB_USER=materialize
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=materialize
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                         | Possible Values           | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                                         | A valid database host URL |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                                | A valid port number       |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                              | A valid database name     |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database username |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database password |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_CONCURRENCY` | The number of concurrent connections each queue has to the database. Default is `2` | A valid number            |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_MAX_POOL` | The maximum number of concurrent database connections to pool. Default is `8`       | A valid number            |    ❌    |

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and Materialize, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

[materialize]: https://materialize.com/docs/
