docs/content/Configuration/Databases/MongoDB.mdx, before:

---
title: MongoDB
permalink: /config/databases/mongodb
---

<WarningBox>
  The driver for MongoDB is <a href="../databases#driver-support">community-supported</a> and is not supported by Cube or the vendor. 
</WarningBox>

## Prerequisites

<InfoBox>

To use Cube.js with MongoDB you need to install the [MongoDB Connector for
BI][mongobi-download]. [Learn more about setup for MongoDB
here][cube-blog-mongodb].

</InfoBox>

- [MongoDB Connector for BI][mongobi-download]
- The hostname for the [MongoDB][mongodb] database server
- The username/password for the [MongoDB][mongodb] database server

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=mongobi
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my.mongobi.host # mongo BI connector host, if using from local, should be either `localhost` or `127.0.0.1`
CUBEJS_DB_PORT=3307 # default port of mongo BI connector service
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=my_mongodb_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=mongodb_server_user
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=mongodb_server_password
```

If you are connecting to a local MongoBI Connector, which is pointing to a local
MongoDB instance, If MongoBI Connector and MongoDB are both running locally,
then the above should work. To connect to a remote MongoDB instance, first
configure `mongosqld` appropriately. See [here for an example config
file][mongobi-with-remote-db].

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                             | Possible Values           | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                             | A valid database host URL |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                    | A valid port number       |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                  | A valid database name     |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                            | A valid database username |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                            | A valid database password |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_SSL`      | If `true`, enables SSL encryption for database connections from Cube.js | `true`, `false`           |    ❌    |

## Pre-Aggregation Feature Support

### countDistinctApprox

Measures of type
[`countDistinctApprox`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox] can not be
used in pre-aggregations when using MongoDB as a source database.

## Pre-Aggregation Build Strategies

<InfoBox>

To learn more about pre-aggregation build strategies, [head
here][ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats].

</InfoBox>

| Feature       | Works with read-only mode? | Is default? |
| ------------- | :------------------------: | :---------: |
| Batching      |             ✅             |     ✅      |
| Export Bucket |             -              |      -      |

By default, MongoDB uses [batching][self-preaggs-batching] to build
pre-aggregations.

### Batching

No extra configuration is required to configure batching for MongoDB.

### Export Bucket

MongoDB does not support export buckets.

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and MongoDB, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

## Additional Configuration

### <--{"id" : "Additional Configuratio"}--> MongoDB Atlas

Use `CUBEJS_DB_SSL=true` to enable SSL as MongoDB Atlas requires it. All other
SSL-related environment variables can be left unset.

[mongodb]: https://www.mongodb.com/
[mongobi-with-remote-db]:
  https://docs.mongodb.com/bi-connector/current/reference/mongosqld/#example-configuration-file
[cube-blog-mongodb]:
  https://cube.dev/blog/building-mongodb-dashboard-using-node.js
[mongobi-download]: https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/bi-connector
[nodejs-docs-tls-ciphers]:
  https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/tls.html#tls_modifying_the_default_tls_cipher_suite
[ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats]:
  /caching/using-pre-aggregations#pre-aggregation-build-strategies
[ref-recipe-enable-ssl]: /recipes/enable-ssl-connections-to-database
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox]:
  /schema/reference/types-and-formats#count-distinct-approx
[self-preaggs-batching]: #batching

Commit message:

docs(config): document default concurrency settings for all drivers

docs/content/Configuration/Databases/MongoDB.mdx, after:

---
title: MongoDB
permalink: /config/databases/mongodb
---

<WarningBox>
  The driver for MongoDB is{' '}
  <a href="../databases#driver-support">community-supported</a> and is not
  supported by Cube or the vendor.
</WarningBox>

## Prerequisites

<InfoBox>

To use Cube.js with MongoDB you need to install the [MongoDB Connector for
BI][mongobi-download]. [Learn more about setup for MongoDB
here][cube-blog-mongodb].

</InfoBox>

- [MongoDB Connector for BI][mongobi-download]
- The hostname for the [MongoDB][mongodb] database server
- The username/password for the [MongoDB][mongodb] database server

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=mongobi
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my.mongobi.host # mongo BI connector host, if using from local, should be either `localhost` or `127.0.0.1`
CUBEJS_DB_PORT=3307 # default port of mongo BI connector service
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=my_mongodb_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=mongodb_server_user
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=mongodb_server_password
```

If you are connecting to a local MongoBI Connector, which is pointing to a local
MongoDB instance, If MongoBI Connector and MongoDB are both running locally,
then the above should work. To connect to a remote MongoDB instance, first
configure `mongosqld` appropriately. See [here for an example config
file][mongobi-with-remote-db].

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                         | Possible Values           | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                                         | A valid database host URL |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                                | A valid port number       |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                              | A valid database name     |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database username |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database password |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_SSL`      | If `true`, enables SSL encryption for database connections from Cube.js             | `true`, `false`           |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_CONCURRENCY` | The number of concurrent connections each queue has to the database. Default is `2` | A valid number            |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_MAX_POOL` | The maximum number of concurrent database connections to pool. Default is `8`       | A valid number            |    ❌    |

## Pre-Aggregation Feature Support

### countDistinctApprox

Measures of type
[`countDistinctApprox`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox] can
not be used in pre-aggregations when using MongoDB as a source database.

## Pre-Aggregation Build Strategies

<InfoBox>

To learn more about pre-aggregation build strategies, [head
here][ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats].

</InfoBox>

| Feature       | Works with read-only mode? | Is default? |
| ------------- | :------------------------: | :---------: |
| Batching      |             ✅             |     ✅      |
| Export Bucket |             -              |      -      |

By default, MongoDB uses [batching][self-preaggs-batching] to build
pre-aggregations.

### Batching

No extra configuration is required to configure batching for MongoDB.

### Export Bucket

MongoDB does not support export buckets.

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and MongoDB, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

## Additional Configuration

### <--{"id" : "Additional Configuratio"}--> MongoDB Atlas

Use `CUBEJS_DB_SSL=true` to enable SSL as MongoDB Atlas requires it. All other
SSL-related environment variables can be left unset.

[mongodb]: https://www.mongodb.com/
[mongobi-with-remote-db]:
  https://docs.mongodb.com/bi-connector/current/reference/mongosqld/#example-configuration-file
[cube-blog-mongodb]:
  https://cube.dev/blog/building-mongodb-dashboard-using-node.js
[mongobi-download]: https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/bi-connector
[nodejs-docs-tls-ciphers]:
  https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/tls.html#tls_modifying_the_default_tls_cipher_suite
[ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats]:
  /caching/using-pre-aggregations#pre-aggregation-build-strategies
[ref-recipe-enable-ssl]: /recipes/enable-ssl-connections-to-database
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox]:
  /schema/reference/types-and-formats#count-distinct-approx
[self-preaggs-batching]: #batching
