docs/content/Configuration/Databases/MS-SQL.mdx, before:

---
title: MS SQL
permalink: /config/databases/mssql
---

## Prerequisites

- The hostname for the [MS SQL][mssql] database server
- The username/password for the [MS SQL][mssql] database server
- The name of the database to use within the [MS SQL][mssql] database server

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=mssql
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my.mssql.host
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=my_mssql_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=mssql_user
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=**********
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                             | Possible Values                             | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                             | A valid database host URL                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                    | A valid port number                         |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                  | A valid database name                       |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                            | A valid database username                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                            | A valid database password                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_DOMAIN`   | A domain name within the database to connect to                         | A valid domain name within a MSSQL database |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_SSL`      | If `true`, enables SSL encryption for database connections from Cube.js | `true`, `false`                             |    ❌    |

## Pre-Aggregation Feature Support

### countDistinctApprox

Measures of type
[`countDistinctApprox`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox] can not be
used in pre-aggregations when using MSSQL as a source database.

## Pre-Aggregation Build Strategies

<InfoBox>

To learn more about pre-aggregation build strategies, [head
here][ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats].

</InfoBox>

| Feature       | Works with read-only mode? | Is default? |
| ------------- | :------------------------: | :---------: |
| Simple        |             ✅             |     ✅      |
| Batching      |             -              |      -      |
| Export Bucket |             -              |      -      |

By default, MSSQL uses a [simple][self-preaggs-simple] strategy to build
pre-aggregations.

### Simple

No extra configuration is required to configure simple pre-aggregation builds
for MSSQL.

### Batching

MSSQL does not support batching.

### Export Bucket

MSSQL does not support export buckets.

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and MS SQL, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

## Additional Configuration

### <--{"id" : "Additional Configuration"}--> Windows Authentication

To connect to a MSSQL database using Windows Authentication (also sometimes
known as `trustedConnection`), instantiate the driver with
`trustedConnection: true` in your `cube.js` configuration file:

```javascript
const MssqlDriver = require('@cubejs-backend/mssql-driver');
module.exports = {
  driverFactory: ({ dataSource }) =>
    new MssqlDriver({ database: dataSource, trustedConnection: true }),
};
```

[mssql]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/sql-server/sql-server-2019
[ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats]:
  /caching/using-pre-aggregations#pre-aggregation-build-strategies
[ref-recipe-enable-ssl]: /recipes/enable-ssl-connections-to-database
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox]:
  /schema/reference/types-and-formats#count-distinct-approx
[self-preaggs-simple]: #simple

Commit message:

docs(config): document default concurrency settings for all drivers

docs/content/Configuration/Databases/MS-SQL.mdx, after:

---
title: MS SQL
permalink: /config/databases/mssql
---

## Prerequisites

- The hostname for the [MS SQL][mssql] database server
- The username/password for the [MS SQL][mssql] database server
- The name of the database to use within the [MS SQL][mssql] database server

## Setup

### <--{"id" : "Setup"}--> Manual

Add the following to a `.env` file in your Cube.js project:

```bash
CUBEJS_DB_TYPE=mssql
CUBEJS_DB_HOST=my.mssql.host
CUBEJS_DB_NAME=my_mssql_database
CUBEJS_DB_USER=mssql_user
CUBEJS_DB_PASS=**********
```

## Environment Variables

| Environment Variable | Description                                                                         | Possible Values                             | Required |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | :------: |
| `CUBEJS_DB_HOST`     | The host URL for a database                                                         | A valid database host URL                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PORT`     | The port for the database connection                                                | A valid port number                         |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_NAME`     | The name of the database to connect to                                              | A valid database name                       |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_USER`     | The username used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database username                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_PASS`     | The password used to connect to the database                                        | A valid database password                   |    ✅    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_DOMAIN`   | A domain name within the database to connect to                                     | A valid domain name within a MSSQL database |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_SSL`      | If `true`, enables SSL encryption for database connections from Cube.js             | `true`, `false`                             |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_CONCURRENCY` | The number of concurrent connections each queue has to the database. Default is `2` | A valid number                              |    ❌    |
| `CUBEJS_DB_MAX_POOL` | The maximum number of concurrent database connections to pool. Default is `8`       | A valid number                              |    ❌    |

## Pre-Aggregation Feature Support

### countDistinctApprox

Measures of type
[`countDistinctApprox`][ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox] can
not be used in pre-aggregations when using MSSQL as a source database.

## Pre-Aggregation Build Strategies

<InfoBox>

To learn more about pre-aggregation build strategies, [head
here][ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats].

</InfoBox>

| Feature       | Works with read-only mode? | Is default? |
| ------------- | :------------------------: | :---------: |
| Simple        |             ✅             |     ✅      |
| Batching      |             -              |      -      |
| Export Bucket |             -              |      -      |

By default, MSSQL uses a [simple][self-preaggs-simple] strategy to build
pre-aggregations.

### Simple

No extra configuration is required to configure simple pre-aggregation builds
for MSSQL.

### Batching

MSSQL does not support batching.

### Export Bucket

MSSQL does not support export buckets.

## SSL

To enable SSL-encrypted connections between Cube.js and MS SQL, set the
`CUBEJS_DB_SSL` environment variable to `true`. For more information on how to
configure custom certificates, please check out [Enable SSL Connections to the
Database][ref-recipe-enable-ssl].

## Additional Configuration

### <--{"id" : "Additional Configuration"}--> Windows Authentication

To connect to a MSSQL database using Windows Authentication (also sometimes
known as `trustedConnection`), instantiate the driver with
`trustedConnection: true` in your `cube.js` configuration file:

```javascript
const MssqlDriver = require('@cubejs-backend/mssql-driver');
module.exports = {
  driverFactory: ({ dataSource }) =>
    new MssqlDriver({ database: dataSource, trustedConnection: true }),
};
```

[mssql]: https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/sql-server/sql-server-2019
[ref-caching-using-preaggs-build-strats]:
  /caching/using-pre-aggregations#pre-aggregation-build-strategies
[ref-recipe-enable-ssl]: /recipes/enable-ssl-connections-to-database
[ref-schema-ref-types-formats-countdistinctapprox]:
  /schema/reference/types-and-formats#count-distinct-approx
[self-preaggs-simple]: #simple
